Whenever we are doing our user express design process there are tons of features that your user might
want.
So they might want to you know pack their laundry or maybe vehicle them up with a smile or things like
that.
They can ask for anything they can even ask for magic.
So what you are going to do is we cannot develop or design all those features.
Everything is not possible.
It might be due to some limitations of cost.
It might be limitation of time.
It might be limitation of development process.
Maybe it's difficult to develop.
So we are actually going to trade off and select the features using the feature metrics and we are going
to see what feature is valuable.
And also we can easily build it so it is cost effective valuable and less time consuming.
Similarly when we are improving or redesigning or improving our design maybe we release our first version
and we got some feedback from the users.
Now we are going to release our second version and we want to improve it.
We are again going to build feature metrics that these features can be or these problems can be adjusted
easily.
They have more value so we are going to do them first.
So this is actually to prioritize which features you want to develop first and which we are going to
develop later.
So let me show you one example.
Now you can see this is how you develop feature metrics and you can see on the left side we have value
to user.
How much value our product has or this feature has for the user.
So from low to high then we have on the bottom we have from the left or right we have difficulty or
cost of implementation.
It might be cost in monetary terms like dollars or it might be time so you can see our resources from
the left right.
We have low and too high.
So you can see the features that are going to fall in this quadrant which are expensive and high value
like automatic Stock Alerts to suppliers.
So it is not very necessary.
We are not going to build them right now.
Similarly package tracking in my country there is no package tracking online or you can see you can
visually see your package going through different drugs.
This is not possible so we are going to leave those then on the left you can see easy wins.
They have high value and they have very low cost.
So on the left you can see Facebook log in is easier to develop than we have taking all in order by
phone.
It is not very difficult.
We just need a phone number and it is also going to improve the trust and credibility of our website.
E-commerce website filtering based on color size and fabric.
This can be done easily.
We just need to have a few filters applied.
So when you are making this decision or this matrix we are going to have our developers.
We are going to have our Martin marketing managers.
We are going to have our CEO and we are going to have our design team.
All of them should be present and they are going to give some points that these are easier to develop
are these are easy wins or things like that because user expands design team they know what are the
pain points development team they know what are development costs marketing teams they know what actually
user wants to see too or our feature that we can market easily for example sorting by fabric type so
things like that.
So on the left side you can see we have low cost low value.
So log in option with just a phone number that can be implemented to it has medium to low value and
it has very low cost.
So anything that is going to fall in this section in this area we are going to implement it or try to
create it in our first vision or MVP minimum minimal viable product and everything that is expensive
and low value.
We are going to neglect it almost totally.
So things like that.
So this is actually very important in decision making because we don't want to our product to be a feature
creep I have I had a client.
I'm going to tell you a little story.
I had a client and he had a brilliant idea and a product which was in web app and what it does it was
a community app.
So if you are in town for example my town or my area is called DC Colonia or D.C. road or things like
that.
So if I am living in at the loony like D.C. colony and on that app you can join that community and everyone
is going to inform you about what actually is happening around them maybe they hired some thief last
night they heard some gunshot last night so they are going to inform you about the safety and other
things and what is happening in the community.
Maybe some advertized mind that I am selling I am opening a new shop for this thing and things like
that so it was a brilliant idea but the problem was that he actually suffocated the app with like tons
of features.
There were 20 different features that were not needed by the his users.
So he was my client from USA and the idea was great.
I left that project because it was getting getting bigger and bigger with a lot of features.
I was a designer as you would expect designer for that.
That was a social app category and I had very bad experience of because of this feature creep.
So this is very important.
I think it is going to make or break your app because you cannot deliver everything at a time so you
have to select few priorities you have to prioritize which features are more essential or they are the
bread and butter of my app.
Users are going to attract to my app with this feature.
So try to develop those which have high value and you can easily make them in within six months or three
months technology is very fast paced.
If you are going to make or improve feature and you are going to introduce it within next five years
then you are going to lose the business because it is changing a lot.
There might be tens of apps that are going to deliver that feature and maybe before you.
So it's a race.
So try to focus on what is high value and you can easily develop it.
Easy wins.
So that is all about this feature matrix and the story I have told you I hope you have learned some
lessons.
Let's move on to the next lesson.